# Optimizing an ML Pipeline in Azure

## Overview
This project is part of the Udacity Azure ML Nanodegree.
In this project, we build and optimize an Azure ML pipeline using the Python SDK and a provided Scikit-learn model.
This model is then compared to an Azure AutoML run.

## Summary
**In 1-2 sentences, explain the problem statement: e.g "This dataset contains data about... we seek to predict..."**
This dataset contents data about Bank Marketing and our goal is to predict if the client will subscribe to a term deposit with the bank.

**In 1-2 sentences, explain the solution: e.g. "The best performing model was a ..."**
The best performing model was a model with acuuracy of aproximately: 0.91.

## Scikit-learn Pipeline
**Explain the pipeline architecture, including data, hyperparameter tuning, and classification algorithm.**
First the data was loaded into dataset and proper compute infra was created to run with suitable hyperdrive configuration.
Random Sampling was choosen as it supports early termination of low-performance runs. In random sampling, hyperparameter values are randomly selected from the defined search space.

**What are the benefits of the parameter sampler you chose?**
Random Sampling was choosen as it supports early termination of low-performance runs. In random sampling, hyperparameter values are randomly selected from the defined search space with two hyperparameters '--C' and '--max_iter'.

**What are the benefits of the early stopping policy you chose?**
enable_early_stopping = true,  enables early termination if the score is not improving in the short term.
BanditPolicy is an "aggressive" early stopping policy with the meaning that cuts more runs.

## AutoML
**In 1-2 sentences, describe the model and hyperparameters generated by AutoML.**
The best performing model was a model with acuuracy: 0.9492762816342654 using VotingEnsemble algoritim.

## Pipeline comparison
**Compare the two models and their performance. What are the differences in accuracy? In architecture? If there was a difference, why do you think there was one?**
The best performing model with hyperdrive was a model with acuuracy aproximately : .91 and with automl the best performing model was a model with acuuracy approximately :.949 .
AutoML avoid the need of frequrent changes in script for diffrent algoritihms.

## Future work
**What are some areas of improvement for future experiments? Why might these improvements help the model?**
In future we can improve the best model by chociing diffrent primary_metrics and diffrent classification methods and claulating and comparing the values of mean_squared_error, to study how our preditiocns have devevated from actual values and also we study mean absolute percent error (MAPE) in detail. We can also study the impact of inncreasing number of clusters used to study to get faster reults. All these could help us in reducing error in our model and also help us to study the model much faster.

## Proof of cluster clean up
**If you did not delete your compute cluster in the code, please complete this section. Otherwise, delete this section.**
**Image of cluster marked for deletion**
To clean up the resources following steps were followed: -
1. Compute cluster deleted via code.
2. Virtual Machine delteted Manually in two steps frist we stoped it via ui and then deleted it via ui. (https://github.com/ashishsomvanshi/Optimizing_a_Pipeline_in_Azure_Project/blob/master/images/2020-11-21%20(4).png)
